# EasyInventory Vision Statement

The EasyInventory (EI) application will be used to manage retail product inventory in real time. EI will be an Android application in which the user can track inventory information by recording changes to their product stock through orders as well as sales. The user will be able to view this history as well as additional statistics for inventory management.

EI is designed for use by retail business managers, who can use the app to keep track of and analyze the product inventory of their business. They will be able to input all their products with a starting amount of stock and will be able to record additions to stock and sales. They will be able to view their catalogue of products and each of the product's information, including price and current quantity. This app will digitize inventory information so that managers can view and manage their store inventory anytime and anywhere without worrying about annoying paper records.

Based on the information input by the user, EI will allow them to view the total amount of stock sold and the profit of a product within a time frame. EI will also notify the user when the quantity of a product has reached a critical level and needs to be re-ordered, minimizing losses due to insufficient stock. The app will store the necessary information to possibly predict future demand of a product, further allowing the user to analyze inventory flow and minimize losses due to excess or insufficient stock.

The easy inventory analysis from an Android device will allow for quick management and reduced time spent on product operations compared to traditional systems which have less portability (for example, managing stock on a computer), are more prone to errors (for example, pen and paper calculation of quantity sold), and/or are less intuitive. EI will allow retail business owners to manage their stock easily, leading to reduced costs and an improved flow of items.

Three criteria will be used to measure the success of EI. First, an improved flow of inventory, measured by a significant reduction in time elapsed in which products are below the critical level of quantity and a significant reduction in stock being voided and in the necessity to make a sale due to excess stock. Second, a reduction in product management times or an increase in the quality of the management. The app should be intuitive and portable, leading to less time spent on data entry and similar tasks. The statistics provided by the app should reduce time spent analyzing the inventory or improve the analysis by reducing time spent on basic analysis. Third, a statistically significant boost of the business' bottom line against the bottom line using a different system will clearly show the success of EI.
